# Node.js express.js MongoDB JWT REST API - Basic Project 


## Getting started

This is a basic API REST skeleton written on JavaScript using async/await. Great for building a starter web API for your front-end (Android, iOS, Vue, react, angular, or anything that can consume an API)

This project is created to help other developers create a **basic REST API in an easy way with Node.js**. This basic example shows how powerful and simple JavaScript can be. Do you want to contribute? Pull requests are always welcome to show more features.

## Features

*   API autogenerated documentation by Postman.
*   API collection example for Postman.
*   Testing with mocha/chai for API endpoints.
*   NPM scripts for cleaning and seeding the MongoDB database.
*   NPM script for keeping good source code formatting using prettier and ESLint.
*   Use of ESLint for good coding practices.
*   Mailer example with Nodemailer and Mailgun.
*   Ability to refresh token
*   JWT Tokens, make requests with a token after login with `Authorization` header with value `Bearer yourToken` where `yourToken` is the **signed and encrypted token** given in the response from the login process.

## Requirements

*   Node.js **10+**
*   MongoDB **3.6+**

## How to run

### Database cleaning and seeding samples

There are 3 available commands for this: `fresh`, `clean` and `seed`.

```bash
npm start
```

You will know server is running by checking the output of the command `npm run dev`

```bash
****************************
*    Starting Server
*    Port: 3000
*    NODE_ENV: development
*    Database: MongoDB
*    DB Connection: OK
****************************
```

### Running tests

It´s a good practice to do tests at your code, so a sample of how to do that in `mocha/chai` is also included in the `/test` directory

```bash
npm run test
```

### Formatting code

Format your code with prettier by typing:

```bash
npm run format
```

### Formatting markdown files

Format all your markdown files with remark by typing:

```bash
npm run remark
```

### Linting code

Lint your code with ESLint by typing:

```bash
npm run lint
```

